# Ansible Zoom In A Chroot

Zoom video conferencing in a chroot so it doesn't muck your system up.
 
Zoom is proprietary software whose Debian version runs on some old
packages.  It needs isolation because (a) it's proprietary code that
might well have security issues and (b) it seems to need old versions
of software.  This ansible role addresses both of these concerns by
running zoom in a chroot.

This ansible role installs zoom to a schroot so you can do

    xhost +
    schroot -c ZOOM_SCHROOT_NAME zoom
    
This will launch zoom.  The xhost command tells your x session to
allow foreign connections.  You can turn it off with `xhost -` after
you're done with zoom.

# Warnings

 * This script was written to be run on localhost.  I haven't tested
   it on a remote box, and while I suppose it should be ok, I haven't
   thought through any of the issues related to remote vs local
   setups.

 * So far, this works on my laptop.  It could use more real-world
   testers.

 * This depends on old Debian repos being available.  I don't actually
   know how reliable that is.  My first Debian install was Bo.  You'd
   think I'd know this by now.
   
 * This depends on the zoom .deb file being available at a stable url.
   I don't know what will happen if the zoom folks update
   zoom_amd64.deb.  For better or worse, I don't think they've done
   that in a while.
 
# Variables

Ansible likes to do setup via variables, so here's some you can set.

zoom_chroot_dir = full path to the zoom chroot that we'll create.
		  Defaults to /opt/zoom

zoom_chroot_clone = path to an existing debian buster chroot we can
                    clone. Defaults to using debootstrap to build one.

zoom_schroot_user = name of localhost user who will access chroot.
		    Defaults to user running 'sudo
		    ansible-playbook'. If you are just running as the
                    root user, please set this variable.

zoom_schroot_name = name of the chroot, used by schroot. Defaults to
                   zoom

# Security and Privacy

This gives you some filesystem separation from zoom, but it exposes
your home dir unless you make a new user.  Set zoom_schroot_user to
somebody who isn't you (e.g. a special-purpose user named 'zoom') then
switch to that user to run zoom. If zoom_schroot_user is a user who
does not exist, ansible will create that user, but not set a password.
You can use sudo or su to become that user:

    xhost +
    sudo -s -u zoom
    cd ~ # must run from a dir that user zoom can access
    schroot -c ZOOM_SCHROOT_NAME zoom

# License

This ansible role is copyright 2019 James Vasile and published under
the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License, version 3 or later.
